TODAY'S LOG

so today i learnt about "linux account groups and user's permissions"
Working with Vim editor...
and i also learnt some extra commands in linux system...
i also learnt how to use the vim code editor, how to read, edit and other stuffs on vim editor 
I also learnt why CLI is more sort after in DevSecOps...for one, it is more efficient, more easier to use for bulk operations and it is also more powerful in general.

Sad to say i won't be doing learning DevSecOps again, simply because i don't want to dilute my efforts i want to solely focus on building backend applications, i wanto to be a specialist at that and that will require me to master it by repitition, so in order words
all my spare time will geared towards perfecting my backend craft. 

Today's LOG
so i have been applying for jobs lately, and i have found out that i will have to learn DEVOPS practices just enough to containarize and deploy my own applications, seems that course i downloaded will still be useful..
why did i come to this conclusion? well in some of the job posts, some of the requirements asided the obvious backend stuffs, i am also seeing some devops requirements, stuffs like CI/CD pipelines, monitoring, IAC (infrstructure as code) e.t.c, so i can't afford to be left behind, also heard that some companies are adopting the "You build it, you deploy it" approach..

Today's LOG
i learnt some SQl today, i learnt about JOINT and it's types, also learnt sorting, where, some CRUD operations, revised some basic syntax just to reinforce memory and lastly i learnt indexing, prior to now, the only type of indexing i knew was that of nosql, mongoDB to be precise.
Had to sign up to an SQL database provider, "railway", took me a while to setup but i got the hang of it in a couple of minutes.
using remote database during develpment is easier for me bacause it makes it easier to deploy when i am done, i won't have to start setting up a remote database when i want to deploy, i just do it.
jjj 

jul 7
i studied 20 videos in devops bootcamp... slowly understanding this concepts 

jul 8
I had to pause study because of I had to go to school for my clearance...will resume once I get back... unrelated but whenever I check the freelance market concerning DevOps gigs...I can't help but wonder why u didn't start DevOps earlier...there is just so much opportunity compared to backend dev

jul 9
Revising my DevOps course... currently in school so can't study new vids as the section I'm in requires hands on practice.

jul 10
Continued with revision of past exercise. Today my cousin(Chidera) birthday as well.

jul 12
Refined my freelance profile to better train the recommendation algorithm for better job matching....I mean I have to monetize this skill at some point

jul 13
revised my DevOps handout today.

jul 15
Still resolving my NYSC DevOps paused for now

jul 16
left shoulder pain, slow progress on my NYSC processing, bad network, lack of finance, insomnia...I know it's a bit personal but this is why I haven't studied for two weeks.

jul 17
School issues still delaying me ..hope to conclude by next week.

July 18
today is my birthday...still not resumed work...but in due time...